=============
Rally v0.11.2
=============

+------------------+-----------------------+
| Release date     |     **03/29/2018**    |
+------------------+-----------------------+

* OpenStack plugins moved to the separate
  `repo <https://github.com/openstack/rally-openstack>`_ and
  `package <https://pypi.org/project/rally-openstack>`_ .
  In-tree OpenStack plugins are deprecated now and will be removed soon. All
  further development should be done in the new repository.

* Environment manager and Platform plugins are extended with a new feature -
  creating a spec based on system environment variables.
  We had similar feature in Deployment component like below, but it handles
  only OpenStack platform.

  .. code-block:: console

    $ rally deployment create --name "my-deployment" --fromenv

  The new feature is not limited by one platform and each platform plugin can
  implement it.
  The usage of the feature is still pretty simple:

  .. code-block:: console

    $ rally env create --name "my-env" --from-sysenv

* There is a new argument for `rally env show` command: **--only-spec**. It is
  a trigger for showing only a specification of the environment

* Methods for association and dissociation floating ips  were deprecated in
  novaclient a year ago and latest major release (python-novaclient 10)
  `doesn't include them
  <https://github.com/openstack/python-novaclient/blob/10.0.0/releasenotes/notes/remove-virt-interfaces-add-rm-fixed-floating-398c905d9c91cca8.yaml>`_.
  These actions should be performed via neutronclient now. It is not as simple
  as it was via Nova-API and you can find more neutron-related atomic actions
  in results of scenarios.

* *os-hosts* CLIs and python API bindings had been deprecated in
  python-novaclient 9.0.0 and became removed in `10.0.0 release
  <https://github.com/openstack/python-novaclient/blob/10.0.0/releasenotes/notes/remove-hosts-d08855550c40b9c6.yaml>`_.
  This decision affected 2 scenarios `NovaHosts.list_hosts
  <https://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.11.1/plugins/plugin_reference.html#novahosts-list-hosts-scenario>`_
  and `NovaHosts.list_and_get_hosts
  <https://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.11.1/plugins/plugin_reference.html#novahosts-list-and-get-hosts-scenario>`_
  which become redundant and we cannot leave them (python-novaclient doesn't
  have proper interfaces any more).

* Improvements of elasticsearch task exporter to cover the case when success
  rate of workload is not in range of 0-100. For example, it can happen when
  context fails.
