============
Rally v0.3.2
============

Information
-----------

+------------------+-----------------------+
| Commits          |         **55**        |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| Dev cycle        |       **25 days**     |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| Release date     |     **3/14/2016**     |
+------------------+-----------------------+


Details
-------

This release, as well as all previous ones, includes a lot of internal and
external changes. Most important of them are listed below.


CLI changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* .. warning:: [Modified] Option '--tempest-config' for 'rally verify
    reinstall' command was deprecated for removal.

* .. warning:: [Removed] Option `--system-wide-install` was removed from
    `rally verify` commands in favor of `--system-wide` option.

* .. warning:: [Modified] Step of installation of Tempest during execution of
    the `rally verify start` command was deprecated and will be removed in the
    future. Please use `rally verify install` instead.

* Rework commands.task.TaskCommands.detailed. Now output of the command
  contains the same results as in HTML report.

Rally Verify
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Re-run failed Tempest tests

  Add the ability to re-run the tempest tests that failed in the last test
  execution. Sometimes Tempest tests fail due to a special temporary condition
  in the environment, in such cases it is very useful to be able to re-execute
  those tests.

  Running the following command will re-run all the test that failed during
  the last test execution regardless of what test suite was run.

  .. code-block:: bash

      rally verify start --failing


Specs & Feature Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `[Spec][Introduced] Refactoring scenario utils`__

__ https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/master/doc/specs/in-progress/refactor_scenario_utils.rst

* `[Spec] Deployment unification`__

__ https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/master/doc/specs/in-progress/deployment_type.rst

Plugins
~~~~~~~

* **Scenarios**:

 * [updated] Fix flavor for cloudera manager

   Cloudera manager need master-node flavor

 * [added] Expand Nova API benchmark in Rally

   Add support for listing nova hosts, agents, availability-zones
   and aggregates.

 * [updated] Make sure VolumeGenerator uses the api version info while cleanup

 * Designate V2 - Add recordset scenarios

   Add create_and_(list|delete)_recordset scenarios
   Remove the test also that checks the allowed methods, this is in order for
   us to be able to have a private method _walk_pages that will do fetching of
   pages for us vs attempting to fetch 1 giant list at once.

 * unify \*_kwargs name in scenarios

   When running a scenario, `kwargs` is used as default key-word arguments.
   But in some scenarios, there are more and one services being called, and
   we use xxx_kwargs for this case.

   However, some xxx_kwargs are not unified for same usage[0]. Unifying
   these could avoid misleading for end users. Another improvement is to
   add xxx_kwargs with empty settings for scenario config files.

   [0] http://paste.openstack.org/show/489505/

 * .. warning:: Deprecated arguments 'script' and 'interpreter' were removed
     in favor of 'command' argument.

   VM task scenarios executes a script with a interpreter provided through a
   formatted argument called 'command' which expects the remote_path or
   local_path of the script and optionally an interpreter with which the
   script has to be executed.

Miscellaneous
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Avoid using `len(x)` to check if x is empty

  This cases are using `len()` to check if collection has items. As
  collections have a boolean representation too, directly check for true /
  false. And fix the wrong mock in its unit test.

* Fix install_rally.sh to get it to work on MacOSX

  On MacOSX, `mktemp` requires being passed a template. This change modifies
  the calls to `mktemp` to explicitly pass a template so that the code works
  on both MacOSX and linux.

* Use new-style Python classes

  There are some classes in the code that didn't inherited from
  nothing and this is an old-style classes. A "New Class" is the
  recommended way to create a class in modern Python.A "New Class"
  should always inherit from `object` or another new-style class.

  Hacking rule added as well.

* Make Rally cope with unversioned keystone URL

  With the change, the client version that's returned is now determined by
  the keystoneclient library itself based on whether you supply a URL with a
  version in it or not.

* Fix rally-mos job to work with mos-8.0

  Also remove hardcoded values for some other jobs.

* Add name() to ResourceManager

  This will allow us to perform cleanup based on the name.

* Add task_id argument to name_matches_object

  This will be used to ensure that we are only deleting resources for a
  particular Rally task.

* Extend api.Task.get_detailed

  Extend api.Task.get_detailed with ability to return task data as dict with
  extended results.

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

**The most critical fixed bugs are**:

* #1547624: Wrong configuration for baremetal(ironic) tempest tests

* #1536800: openrc values are not quoted

  The openrc file created after rally deployment --fromenv did not quote the
  values for environment variables that will be exported.

* #1509027: Heat delete_stack never exits if status is DELETE_FAILED

* #1540545: Refactored atomic action in authenticate scenario

* #1469897: Incompatible with Keystone v3 argument in service create scenario

* #1550262: Different results in ``rally task detailed``, ``rally task report``
  and ``rally task status`` commands.

* #1553024: Backward incompatible change in neutronclient(release 4.1.0) broke
  Tempest config generation to support latest neutronclient.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add documentation for DB migration

* Make documentation for output plugins

  * Add descriptive docstrings for plugins based on OutputChart
  * Register these plugins in `Rally Plugins Reference`__

__ http://docs.openstack.org/developer/rally/plugin/plugin_reference.html

* Documentation tox fix

  Added information about debugging unit test with tox. Replace 3 references
  to py26 with py34 to reflect current rally tox configuration.

* Change structure of rally plugin and plugin references page

* Update the scenario development, runner and context sections

* The design of `Rally Plugins Reference`__ page was improved

__ http://docs.openstack.org/developer/rally/plugin/plugin_reference.html

* New page was added - `CLI references`__

__ http://docs.openstack.org/developer/rally/cli/cli_reference.html

Thanks
~~~~~~

To Everybody!
