============
Rally v0.3.3
============

Information
-----------

+------------------+-----------------------+
| Commits          |        **20**         |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| Dev cycle        |       **10 days**     |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| Release date     |     **3/24/2016**     |
+------------------+-----------------------+


Details
-------

A half of patches relate to Cleanup. We have once again proved that ideal
stuff can be improved. :)

Specs & Feature Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `[Spec][Introduced] Improve atomic actions format`__

__ https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/master/doc/specs/in-progress/improve_atomic_actions_format.rst

Plugins
~~~~~~~

* **Cleanups**:

 * Use proper attribute to get heat stack name

 * Always assign a name to created images.

   This is necessary for name-based cleanup. If a name is not specified, one
   will be generated automatically.

 * Improve filtering glance images in case of V2 API

 * Delete only images created by images context

   Since the images context allows creating images with arbitrary names,
   name-based cleanup won't work for it, so we have to delete the exact list
   of images that it created instead.

 * New config option to set cleanup threads

   Allow the user to change the number of cleanup threads via the rally
   config. When scaling out to thousands of instances, the cleanup can take
   forever with the static 20 threads.

 * Add inexact matching to name_matches_object

   This will support places where we create resources with names that start
   with a given name pattern, but include some additional identifier
   afterwards. For instance, when bulk creating instances, Nova appends a UUID
   to each instance name.

* **Scenarios**:

 * Add sample of template for testing for testing heat caching.

 * Introduced new scenario `Dummy.dummy_random_action`__. It is suitable for
   demonstration of upcoming trends report.

__ http://rally.readthedocs.org/en/latest/plugin/plugin_reference.html#dummy-dummy-random-action-scenario

* **Contexts**:

 `api_versions`__ context was extended to support switch between Keystone V2
 and V3 API versions. Now it is possible to use one Rally deployment to check
 both Keystone APIs.

__ http://rally.readthedocs.org/en/latest/plugin/plugin_reference.html#api-versions-context

* **Newcomer in the family**:

 All ResourceType classes are pluggable now and it is much easier to use and
 extend them.

 .. warning:: Decorator ``rally.task.types.set`` is deprecated now in favor of
    ``rally.task.types.convert``.


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* #1536172: rally deployment destroy failed with traceback for failed
  deployments. At current moment it is impossible to delete deployment if for
  some reason deployment engine plugin cannot be found, because exception will
  be thrown.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Remove extra link in `All release notes`

  Previously, two links for latest release were presented.

* Update release notes for 0.3.2

  * Fixed indents for warning messages
  * Fixed all references

Thanks
~~~~~~

 To Everybody!
