============
Rally v0.5.0
============

Information
-----------

+------------------+-----------------------+
| Commits          |        **175**        |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| Bug fixes        |        **19**         |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| Dev cycle        |      **93 days**      |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| Release date     |     **7/20/2016**     |
+------------------+-----------------------+


Details
-------

This release took much more time than we expected, but we have a lot of
reasons for such delay and if you look at our change-log, you will understand
them.:)

Here is a quick introduction:

* To make our releases as much as possible stable, we added upper limits for
  each of our requirements;
* A lot of deprecated lines of code were removed, so be careful;
* Statistics trends for given tasks were introduced;
* Support for tempest plugins was added;
* Several new pages at docs.

Specs & Feature Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `[Introduced && implemented] Introduce class-based scenario implementation <https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/0.5.0/doc/specs/implemented/class-based-scenarios.rst>`_

* `[Introduced] Rally Task Validation refactoring <https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/0.5.0/doc/specs/in-progress/pluggable_validators.rst>`_

* `[Introduced] Scaling & Refactoring Rally DB <https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/0.5.0/doc/specs/in-progress/db_refactoring.rst>`_

* `[Introduced] SLA Performance degradation plugin <https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/0.5.0/doc/specs/in-progress/sla_pd_plugin.rst>`_

Logging
~~~~~~~

* disable urllib3 warnings only if the library provide them

Database
~~~~~~~~

[doesn't require migration]
Transform DB layer to return dicts, not SQLAlchemy models

Rally Deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Support single-AZ deployment

  This supports the case where OpenStack is deployed with a single AZ for both
  controller(s) and compute(s), and not all hosts in the AZ that contains an
  instance are guaranteed to have the nova-compute service.

* Extend creation from environment with several new vars

  - OS_ENDPOINT_TYPE/OS_INTERFACE
  - OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME
  - OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME

* Improve devstack plugin for Keystone V3

Rally Task
~~~~~~~~~~

*NEW!!* Statistics trends for given tasks.


Rally Verify
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Remove '--tempest-config' arg from 'reinstall' command

  .. warning:: Using `--tempest-config` is became an error from this release.
      Use `rally verify genconfig` cmd for all config related stuff.

* Don't install Tempest when `rally verify start`

  .. warning:: Use should use `rally verify install` cmd to install tempest now

* Add ability to setup version of Tempest to install

  `CLI argument to setup version <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/cli/cli_reference.html#verify-install-version>`_

* Configure 'aodh' service in 'service_available' section

* Check existence of Tempest-tree in `rally verify discover` cmd

* Make Tempest work with auth url which doesn't include keystone version

  Tempest needs /v2.0 and /v3 at the end of URLs. Actually, we can't fix
  Tempest, so we extend our configuration module with workaround which allow
  to specify auth_url without version in rally deployment config.

* Use default list of plugins for sahara

* Move tempest related options of rally configuration to separate section.

* *NEW!!* Support for tempest plugins.

  `CLI argument to install them <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/cli/cli_reference.html#verify-installplugin>`_


Plugins
~~~~~~~

In this release we are happy to introduce new entity - plugins Base classes

We have a lot of base plugin entities: Context, Scenario, SLA and etc.
Sometimes plugins of different bases can have equal names(i.e ceilometer
OSClient and ceilometer Context). It is normal and we should allow such
conflicts. To support such cases we introduced new entity - plugin base.
Statements of plugin bases:
 - Each plugin base is unique entity;
 - Names of plugin bases can't conflict with each other;
 - Names of two or more plugins in one plugin base can't conflict with each
   other(in case of same namespace).
 - Names of two or more plugins in different plugin base can conflict

Current list of plugin bases:
 - rally.task.context.Context
 - rally.task.scenario.Scenario
 - rally.task.types.ResourceType
 - rally.task.exporter.TaskExporter
 - rally.task.processing.charts.Chart
 - rally.task.runner.ScenarioRunner
 - rally.task.sla.SLA
 - rally.deployment.serverprovider.provider.ProviderFactory
 - rally.deployment.engine.Engine
 - rally.osclients.OSClient

**OSClients**

* *NEW!!* Support for Senlin client

* *NEW!!* Support for Gnocchi client

* *NEW!!* Support for Magnum client

* *NEW!!* Support for Watcher client

* Transmit endpoint_type to saharaclient

**Scenarios**:

* *NEW!!*:

 - `Authenticate.validate_ceilometer <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#authenticate-validate-ceilometer-scenario>`_
 - `CinderVolumes.create_volume_from_snapshot <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#cindervolumes-create-volume-from-snapshot>`_
 - `CinderVolumes.create_volume_and_clone <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#cindervolumes-create-volume-and-clone>`_
 - `NovaFlavors.create_and_list_flavor_access <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#novaflavors-create-and-list-flavor-access-scenario>`_
 - `NovaFlavors.create_flavor <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#novaflavors-create-flavor-scenario>`_
 - `NovaServers.boot_and_update_server <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#novaservers-boot-and-update-server>`_
 - `NovaServers.boot_server_from_volume_snapshot <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#novaservers-boot-server-from-volume-snapshot>`_

* [Sahara] Add configs to MapR plugin

* Extend CinderVolumes.create_and_upload_volume_to_image with "image" argument

  `Plugin Reference <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#cindervolumes-create-and-upload-volume-to-image-scenario>`_

* Deprecate Dummy.dummy_with_scenario_output scenario in favor of Dummy.dummy_output

  .. warning:: Dummy.dummy_with_scenario_output scenario will be removed after
      several releases

  `Deprecated Plugin Reference <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#dummy-dummy-with-scenario-output-scenario>`_
  `New Plugin Reference <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#dummy-dummy-output-scenario>`_

* Extend CinderVolumes.create_volume_and_clone with nested_level

  Add nested_level argument for nested cloning volume to new volume

  `Plugin Reference <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#cindervolumes-create-volume-and-clone>`_

* Extend CinderVolumes.create_nested_snapshots_and_attach_volume

  Two new arguments were added: create_volume_kwargs and create_snapshot_kwargs

  .. warning:: All arguments related to snapshot creation should be transmitted
        only via create_snapshot_kwargs.

  `Plugin Reference <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#cindervolumes-create-nested-snapshots-and-attach-volume>`_

* Introduce new style of scenarios - class based.

  `Spec Reference <https://github.com/openstack/rally/blob/0.5.0/doc/specs/implemented/class-based-scenarios.rst>`_

* Improve report for VMTasks.boot_runcommand_delete

* [Sahara] Added 5.5.0 version for cdh-plugin and 1.6.0 version for spark

* Extend boot_server_from_volume_and_delete, boot_server_from_volume,
  boot_server_from_volume_and_live_migrate, boot_server_from_volume_snapshot
  scenarios of NovaServers class with "volume_type" parameter.

**Contexts**:

* *NEW!!*:

  - `Cinder volume_types <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#volume-types-context>`_
  - `Murano environments <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#murano-environments-context>`_
  - `Heat dataplane <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/plugin/plugin_reference.html#heat-dataplane-context>`_

* Use Broker Pattern in Keystone roles context

* Use immutable types for locking context configuration

  Since context configuration passed to Context.__init__() was a mutable type
  (dict or list), sometimes we had unexpected changes done by unpredictable
  code (for example, in wrappers).

* Add possibility to balance usage of users

  For the moment all users for tasks were taken randomly and there was no way
  to balance them between tasks. It may be very useful when we have difference
  between first usage of tenant/user and all consecutive. In this case we get
  different load results.

  Therefore, "users" context was extended with new config option
  'user_choice_method' that defines approach for picking up users.

  Two values are available:
  - random
  - round_robin

  Default one is compatible with old approach - "random".

* Make sahara_image and custom_image contexts glance v2 compatible

* Extend servers context with "nics" parameter

* Extend network context with "dns_nameservers" parameter

* Extend volume context with "volume_type" parameter

**Cleanup**:

* Mark several cleanup resources as tenant_resource

  Nova servers and security groups are tenant related resources, but resource
  decorator missed that fact which makes cleanup tries to delete one resources
  several times.

* Turn off redundant nova servers cleanup for NovaFlavors.list_flavors scenario

* Add neutron cleanup for NeutronSecurityGroup.create_and_delete_security_groups

**Exporter**:

Rename task-exporter "file-exporter" to "file".

.. warning:: "file-exporter" is deprecated and will be removed in further
    releases.

**Types**:

Remove deprecated types.

.. warning:: you should use rally.task.types.convert instead of
    rally.task.types.set decorator

**Validators**

* Add a required_api_version validator
* Add validators for scenario arguments

**Utils**:

Use glance wrapper where appropriate to support compatibility between V1 and V2

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

**19 bugs were fixed**:

* Wrong arguments order of Keystone wrapper in case of V2 and V3

* AttributeError while disabling urllib3 warnings on old installations

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1573650>`_

* install_rally.sh script is failed while obtaining setuptools

* "-inf" load duration in case of wrong runner plugin and failed start of
  contexts

* Strange input task in the report

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1570328>`_

* Wrong behaviour of boot_server_from_volume scenarios in case of booting
  server from image.

  The arg of image must be None, when booting server from volume. Otherwise
  still boot server from image.

  Affected scenarios:
    NovaServers.boot_server_from_volume
    NovaServers.boot_server_from_volume_and_delete
    NovaServers.boot_server_from_volume_and_resize
    NovaServers.boot_server_from_volume_and_live_migrate

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1578556>`_

* Weak validation of json schema of RPS runner

  JSON Schema of RPS runner doesn't have "required" field. It means that
  users are able to pass wrong configs and we will have runtime error while
  running task.

* Rally doesn't take cacert setting while creating keystone session

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1577360>`_

* Heat scenarios fail when API uses TLS

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1585456>`_

* Example in comment of context manila_share_networks wrong

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1587164>`_

* There is no way to get UUID of a verification after it is created by
  "rally verify start" or "rally verify import_results" when --no-use is set

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1587034>`_

* Exposed ssh timeout and interval in vm scenario

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1587728>`_

* Ceilometer scenario doesn't require "ceilometer" ctx

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1557642>`_

* "servers" context requires setting network id for multiple possible networks
  found.

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1592292>`_

* nested_level data type incorrect in create_nested_snapshots_and_attach_volume

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1594656>`_

* Rally cleanup servers raises exception

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1584104>`_

* Stopping server is redundant before cold-migrating server

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1594730>`_

* existing_users context doesn't work in case of Keystone v3

* Whether validates flavor's disk or not depends on booting type of the instance

  `Launchpad bug-report <https://bugs.launchpad.net/rally/+bug/1596756>`_

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Re-use openstack theme for building docs outside rtd.

  `Rally Docs at docs.openstack.org <http://docs.openstack.org/developer/rally/>`_

* Add page for Verification component

  `RTD page <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/tutorial/step_10_verifying_cloud_via_tempest.html>`_

* Add glossary page

  `RTD page <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/tutorial/glossary.html>`_

* Adjust docs reference to "KeystoneBasic.authenticate" scenario

  `RTD page <http://rally.readthedocs.io/en/0.5.0/tutorial/step_6_aborting_load_generation_on_sla_failure.html>`_

Thanks
~~~~~~

 2 Everybody!
